drafts/cases/2025-11-14-anthony-silva.md, before:

NOTES

Try to tell the story in an unbiased way this is supposed to be neutral reporting. Integrate the media throughout the article in a way that is appropriate and engaging.

On the afternoon of October 8, 2022, the ordinary life of Plaintiff
Dorothey Heimbach’s son, Anthony Silva, was catastrophically and irrevocably
shattered. From the peaceful setting of a public gazebo emerged an episode of gutwrenching
brutality meted out by the very individuals entrusted with his protection:
deputies of the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department.
4. In an unjustified and excessive display of force, these deputies forcibly
slammed Mr. Silva to the ground, head first. This violent act caused severe cervical
fractures at the C6 and C7 vertebrae of Mr. Silva’s neck. These injuries rendered
Mr. Silva quadriplegic and caused his death one year later, on September 10, 2023.
5. After breaking his neck, to add to the severity of their misconduct, the
deputies, in clear disregard for Mr. Silva’s visibly deteriorating condition,
proceeded to move him around—first lifting him from the ground to a park bench
and later, from the bench to a picnic table. Every shift, every jostle, every moment
of delay in getting professional medical help intensified Mr. Silva’s injuries,
exacerbating the damage to his cervical vertebrae and directly contributing to his
quadriplegia and death.
6. These tragic events are a direct consequence of the deeply flawed
policies and practices at the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department. The
department’s inadequate and deficient training procedures have not only failed to
prevent such instances of excessive force, but also, the department has ratified the
unconstitutional conduct of their officers time and time again.

On the afternoon of October 8, 2022, Decedent Anthony Silva’s life
was irrevocably altered when Stanislaus County deputies unleashed a brutal
assault, leaving him quadriplegic and eventually causing his death on September
10, 2023.
24. Mr. Silva was outside the Riverbank Community Center at 3600 Santa
Fe Street, Riverbank, CA 95367, near a gazebo that is a public facility.
25. At the time of the incident, Mr. Silva was a 39-year-old man.
26. Mr. Silva is a high school graduate.
27. For several years before the incident, he had been experiencing
housing instability.
28. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG approached Mr. Silva and
immediately executed a forceful takedown and arrest, thought Mr. Silva offered no
resistance, was not suspected of a serious crime, and was not a threat to anyone.
29. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG detained Mr. Silva without
reasonable suspicion that he had committed any crime.
30. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG led Mr. Silva to the nearby gazebo
and Deputy BAVARO met them there.
31. During their conversation with Mr. Silva, Deputy CAMARA became
angry and forcefully slammed Mr. Silva head-first into the ground with help from
Deputies XIONG and BAVARO.
32. The forceful takedown of Mr. Silva resulted in cervical fractures of his
C6 and C7 vertebrae. In layman’s terms, Mr. Silva’s neck was broken.
33. Due to his broken neck, Mr. Silva could not get back to his feet. Mr.
Silva immediately told the deputies, “I’m paralyzed.”
34. Although Mr. Silva was clearly suffering from a severe injury, the
Defendant Deputies did not promptly call paramedics.
35. Instead, as Mr. Silva lay on the ground, Deputies CAMARA and
XIONG began to move his injured body. Without giving his neck any support, they
carried his limp body to a nearby picnic table and sat him upright.
36. Moving Mr. Silva multiple times exacerbated his neck injury, resulting
in permanent quadriplegia.
37. The Defendant Deputies caused a delay in Mr. Silva’s receipt of
medical care, despite the obvious and urgent need.
38. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva complied with the Defendant
Deputies’ commands and did not resist arrest.
39. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies had no information that
Mr. Silva posed any threat of injury to anyone, nor did they have information that
Mr. Silva had injured anyone.
40. Mr. Silva had in fact, not hurt anyone at any relevant time.
41. Before breaking his neck, the deputies did not warn Mr. Silva that they
would begin using force against him, despite it being feasible to do so, and despite
Mr. Silva’s compliance with the Defendant Deputies’ commands.
42. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva posed no imminent threat of bodily
harm to the Defendant Deputies or anyone else.
43. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva made no verbal threats to any officer
or anyone else.
44. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies could observe that Mr.
Silva was unarmed and had no weapons in his possession.
45. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies had no information that
Mr. Silva had committed a crime unrelated to the alleged shoulder-check the officer
claimed to have experienced.
46. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies failed to make any effort
to ascertain whether Mr. Silva was suffering from a medical problem or crisis
requiring urgent treatment, as was obvious and in fact the case at the time.
47. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies failed to take steps to deescalate
the situation or give Mr. Silva the opportunity to cooperate with their
instructions or comply with their orders prior to assaulting him.
48. As a result of the Defendant Deputies’ forceful takedown, restraint,
and subsequent movement of his injured body, Mr. Silva suffered significant
injuries, including a C6, C7 cervical fracture leading to permanent quadriplegia,
skin abrasions on his arms, and various complications including pneumonia in both
lower lobes of his lungs and blood clots.
49. After the incident, Mr. Silva never left the hospital. After suffering
from his injuries for nearly a year, Mr. Silva died on September 10, 2023. His death
was caused by the Defendant Deputies’ inexcusable actions on August 8, 2023.

Important -- the crime at issue that the officers were initial responding to was public intoxication. Silva was totally compliant when he was originally arrested and the initial takedown was also completely uncalled for since he was not resisting in any way. After they took him to the gazebo and searched him finding what they believd to be drugs they decided to book him and he got agitated as they walked him to the police car leading to the takedown

Note that Camara claims that Silva "shoulder checked" him right before the takedown, but the video speaks for itself.

He was immediately paralyzed and tells the officer that but they keep him upright and apparently don't believe him

Do a section on the inaccurate reporting of the incident. Note that the use of force form doesn't say that Silva's neck was broken even though Camara, who wrote the report, and Hickman, who approved the report, were notified by the hospital that Silva was in the ICU with a severe neck fracture. Reading the report you would have no idea how serious the force was. This is false reporting and potentially a cover up, at the very least it is the department failing to keep their deputies in line.

Also note that the department never reported the incident to CA DOJ as required by law.

The incident was only reported to the Stanislaus DA for investigation after the DA heard about it through reporting on the civil lawsuit and inquired. Note the DA did later decide not to press criminal charges.

Couple other background facts -- Deputies Bret Babbit and Lauren Romero (on horseback) initial responded and were the ones to put in a public intoxication call which Camara and Xiong (on bike) responded to setting off this incident.

Hickman came after the incident, he was Camara and Xiong's Sergent

## Basic Info
- Victim name: Anthony Silva
- Date of incident: October 8, 2022
- Location (city, county): Riverbank, California (Stanislaus County)
- Police department(s): Stanislaus Sheriff Dept
- Current status (ongoing/settled/closed): Trial set for January 5, 2026, DA investigation closed with no charges, no admin investigation

## Media Files

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/uxjyvxzlya4j6lj2h3gmb/All-Videos-Combined.mov?rlkey=tad46yig21tx4hhm66zxcrz7j&st=9t5jahgd&dl=0
this is a slowed down version of the three body cam videos combined that is the best way to see what happened to his neck during the takedown


https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/4k2hbnec02upu6st6i0zd/after_surgery.png?rlkey=d9ieyf8f5v9byumcqe1il3wht&st=w5joq5ld&dl=0
this is an image of his neck after surgury you can see all the pins place to fix the break}}

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2tjscz8t6osh36prlei5c/after-incident.jpg?rlkey=yk58ntl9xu4sulv4yuppd1i5y&st=iityb3bg&dl=0
in hospital after incident

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/87re1kxteng7plps8sxq2/Anthony-before-incident.jpg?rlkey=qljttav41a4pxsdq2nc223wcp&st=wmp252hl&dl=0
this should be the featured image

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/dr5bwjiy5raysjt42coso/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h11m32s-DEF-00027-Xiong.mp4.mp4?rlkey=49js6piqr0r51enj56usdic4a&st=3jlqjc71&dl=0
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Xiong

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/9i5nvpruzngn7y30637td/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h09m53s-DEF-00029-Bavaro.mp4.mp4?rlkey=kqtdv2yvkfh2442rrrlbuq1ap&st=234d199e&dl=0
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Bavaro

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/bxy9ksft1vduyaagze85o/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h10m41s-DEF-00028-Camara.mp4.mp4?rlkey=ualb31c28cbrwcfhf2bbmljja&st=z6dhav4a&dl=0 
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Camara

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/n7owewtqefxctaj9bj93h/15-2024.03.14-Second-Amended-Complaint-SAC.pdf?rlkey=qbkda5gtrahj3q4yq8pkojl30&st=h3hu9k94&dl=0 
Second Amended Complaint, Federal civil rights complaint filed against Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department regarding Anthony Silva's case


https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/0uzsa4239niy1ih01nie5/DEF-0083-0084-Use-of-force-form.pdf?rlkey=wu6jmbu4za3ht3hi68htk6kv9&st=mfrzjkd8&dl=0 
Use of Force Report written by Deputy Camara and approved by Hickman that fails to accurately reflect the seriousness of the force used or injuries sustained

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7acem2gh0w2ltran7ez6y/SCSD-Incident-Report.pdf?rlkey=6jeq5bgb7pk3ls2xq0i2tjj5h&st=88b4ul07&dl=0
Incident Report - Official Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department incident report


https://as1.ftcdn.net/v2/jpg/01/68/88/70/1000_F_168887075_ZM3mPBzD4Xqs9rkHCLmJNfKdcczWfdc4.jpg
this is just an image of a puppy used as a test

## Legal Details
2:23-cv-01887-DJC-KJN federal court eastern district, sacramento, Judge Calabretta. Trial scheduleded for January 5, 2026. Case originally brought by Anthony but when he died his mother Dorothey Heimbach substituted in for him.

## News articles about the incident

https://www.kcra.com/article/stanislaus-county-lawsuit-wrongful-death-son/46369300
https://www.aol.com/news/stanislaus-county-sued-wrongful-death-150000617.html
https://www.modbee.com/news/local/crime/article284659795.html
https://youtu.be/6r3ORU6Lx-k?si=3KBCmnkvz9Xf0bWL
https://youtu.be/KLk7aKXx2Dc

Commit message:

feat: Add direct download URL conversion for Dropbox and Google Drive links in video upload process

drafts/cases/2025-11-14-anthony-silva.md, after:

NOTES

Try to tell the story in an unbiased way this is supposed to be neutral reporting. Integrate the media throughout the article in a way that is appropriate and engaging.

On the afternoon of October 8, 2022, the ordinary life of Plaintiff
Dorothey Heimbach’s son, Anthony Silva, was catastrophically and irrevocably
shattered. From the peaceful setting of a public gazebo emerged an episode of gutwrenching
brutality meted out by the very individuals entrusted with his protection:
deputies of the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department.
4. In an unjustified and excessive display of force, these deputies forcibly
slammed Mr. Silva to the ground, head first. This violent act caused severe cervical
fractures at the C6 and C7 vertebrae of Mr. Silva’s neck. These injuries rendered
Mr. Silva quadriplegic and caused his death one year later, on September 10, 2023.
5. After breaking his neck, to add to the severity of their misconduct, the
deputies, in clear disregard for Mr. Silva’s visibly deteriorating condition,
proceeded to move him around—first lifting him from the ground to a park bench
and later, from the bench to a picnic table. Every shift, every jostle, every moment
of delay in getting professional medical help intensified Mr. Silva’s injuries,
exacerbating the damage to his cervical vertebrae and directly contributing to his
quadriplegia and death.
6. These tragic events are a direct consequence of the deeply flawed
policies and practices at the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department. The
department’s inadequate and deficient training procedures have not only failed to
prevent such instances of excessive force, but also, the department has ratified the
unconstitutional conduct of their officers time and time again.

On the afternoon of October 8, 2022, Decedent Anthony Silva’s life
was irrevocably altered when Stanislaus County deputies unleashed a brutal
assault, leaving him quadriplegic and eventually causing his death on September
10, 2023.
24. Mr. Silva was outside the Riverbank Community Center at 3600 Santa
Fe Street, Riverbank, CA 95367, near a gazebo that is a public facility.
25. At the time of the incident, Mr. Silva was a 39-year-old man.
26. Mr. Silva is a high school graduate.
27. For several years before the incident, he had been experiencing
housing instability.
28. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG approached Mr. Silva and
immediately executed a forceful takedown and arrest, thought Mr. Silva offered no
resistance, was not suspected of a serious crime, and was not a threat to anyone.
29. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG detained Mr. Silva without
reasonable suspicion that he had committed any crime.
30. Deputies CAMARA and XIONG led Mr. Silva to the nearby gazebo
and Deputy BAVARO met them there.
31. During their conversation with Mr. Silva, Deputy CAMARA became
angry and forcefully slammed Mr. Silva head-first into the ground with help from
Deputies XIONG and BAVARO.
32. The forceful takedown of Mr. Silva resulted in cervical fractures of his
C6 and C7 vertebrae. In layman’s terms, Mr. Silva’s neck was broken.
33. Due to his broken neck, Mr. Silva could not get back to his feet. Mr.
Silva immediately told the deputies, “I’m paralyzed.”
34. Although Mr. Silva was clearly suffering from a severe injury, the
Defendant Deputies did not promptly call paramedics.
35. Instead, as Mr. Silva lay on the ground, Deputies CAMARA and
XIONG began to move his injured body. Without giving his neck any support, they
carried his limp body to a nearby picnic table and sat him upright.
36. Moving Mr. Silva multiple times exacerbated his neck injury, resulting
in permanent quadriplegia.
37. The Defendant Deputies caused a delay in Mr. Silva’s receipt of
medical care, despite the obvious and urgent need.
38. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva complied with the Defendant
Deputies’ commands and did not resist arrest.
39. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies had no information that
Mr. Silva posed any threat of injury to anyone, nor did they have information that
Mr. Silva had injured anyone.
40. Mr. Silva had in fact, not hurt anyone at any relevant time.
41. Before breaking his neck, the deputies did not warn Mr. Silva that they
would begin using force against him, despite it being feasible to do so, and despite
Mr. Silva’s compliance with the Defendant Deputies’ commands.
42. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva posed no imminent threat of bodily
harm to the Defendant Deputies or anyone else.
43. At all relevant times, Mr. Silva made no verbal threats to any officer
or anyone else.
44. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies could observe that Mr.
Silva was unarmed and had no weapons in his possession.
45. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies had no information that
Mr. Silva had committed a crime unrelated to the alleged shoulder-check the officer
claimed to have experienced.
46. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies failed to make any effort
to ascertain whether Mr. Silva was suffering from a medical problem or crisis
requiring urgent treatment, as was obvious and in fact the case at the time.
47. At all relevant times, the Defendant Deputies failed to take steps to deescalate
the situation or give Mr. Silva the opportunity to cooperate with their
instructions or comply with their orders prior to assaulting him.
48. As a result of the Defendant Deputies’ forceful takedown, restraint,
and subsequent movement of his injured body, Mr. Silva suffered significant
injuries, including a C6, C7 cervical fracture leading to permanent quadriplegia,
skin abrasions on his arms, and various complications including pneumonia in both
lower lobes of his lungs and blood clots.
49. After the incident, Mr. Silva never left the hospital. After suffering
from his injuries for nearly a year, Mr. Silva died on September 10, 2023. His death
was caused by the Defendant Deputies’ inexcusable actions on August 8, 2023.

Important -- the crime at issue that the officers were initial responding to was public intoxication. Silva was totally compliant when he was originally arrested and the initial takedown was also completely uncalled for since he was not resisting in any way. After they took him to the gazebo and searched him finding what they believd to be drugs they decided to book him and he got agitated as they walked him to the police car leading to the takedown

Note that Camara claims that Silva "shoulder checked" him right before the takedown, but the video speaks for itself.

He was immediately paralyzed and tells the officer that but they keep him upright and apparently don't believe him

Do a section on the inaccurate reporting of the incident. Note that the use of force form doesn't say that Silva's neck was broken even though Camara, who wrote the report, and Hickman, who approved the report, were notified by the hospital that Silva was in the ICU with a severe neck fracture. Reading the report you would have no idea how serious the force was. This is false reporting and potentially a cover up, at the very least it is the department failing to keep their deputies in line.

Also note that the department never reported the incident to CA DOJ as required by law.

The incident was only reported to the Stanislaus DA for investigation after the DA heard about it through reporting on the civil lawsuit and inquired. Note the DA did later decide not to press criminal charges.

Couple other background facts -- Deputies Bret Babbit and Lauren Romero (on horseback) initial responded and were the ones to put in a public intoxication call which Camara and Xiong (on bike) responded to setting off this incident.

Hickman came after the incident, he was Camara and Xiong's Sergent

## Basic Info
- Victim name: Anthony Silva
- Date of incident: October 8, 2022
- Location (city, county): Riverbank, California (Stanislaus County)
- Police department(s): Stanislaus Sheriff Dept
- Current status (ongoing/settled/closed): Trial set for January 5, 2026, DA investigation closed with no charges, no admin investigation

## Media Files

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/uxjyvxzlya4j6lj2h3gmb/All-Videos-Combined.mov?rlkey=tad46yig21tx4hhm66zxcrz7j&st=9t5jahgd&dl=0
this is a slowed down version of the three body cam videos combined that is the best way to see what happened to his neck during the takedown


https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/4k2hbnec02upu6st6i0zd/after_surgery.png?rlkey=d9ieyf8f5v9byumcqe1il3wht&st=w5joq5ld&dl=0
this is an image of his neck after surgury you can see all the pins place to fix the break}}

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2tjscz8t6osh36prlei5c/after-incident.jpg?rlkey=yk58ntl9xu4sulv4yuppd1i5y&st=iityb3bg&dl=0
in hospital after incident

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/87re1kxteng7plps8sxq2/Anthony-before-incident.jpg?rlkey=qljttav41a4pxsdq2nc223wcp&st=wmp252hl&dl=0
this should be the featured image

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/dr5bwjiy5raysjt42coso/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h11m32s-DEF-00027-Xiong.mp4.mp4?rlkey=49js6piqr0r51enj56usdic4a&st=3jlqjc71&dl=0
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Xiong

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/9i5nvpruzngn7y30637td/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h09m53s-DEF-00029-Bavaro.mp4.mp4?rlkey=kqtdv2yvkfh2442rrrlbuq1ap&st=234d199e&dl=0
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Bavaro

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/bxy9ksft1vduyaagze85o/vlc-record-2024-08-06-16h10m41s-DEF-00028-Camara.mp4.mp4?rlkey=ualb31c28cbrwcfhf2bbmljja&st=z6dhav4a&dl=0 
Body-cam clip of the takedown that broke Anthony Silva's neck — Officer Camara

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/n7owewtqefxctaj9bj93h/15-2024.03.14-Second-Amended-Complaint-SAC.pdf?rlkey=qbkda5gtrahj3q4yq8pkojl30&st=h3hu9k94&dl=0 
Second Amended Complaint, Federal civil rights complaint filed against Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department regarding Anthony Silva's case


https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/0uzsa4239niy1ih01nie5/DEF-0083-0084-Use-of-force-form.pdf?rlkey=wu6jmbu4za3ht3hi68htk6kv9&st=mfrzjkd8&dl=0 
Use of Force Report written by Deputy Camara and approved by Hickman that fails to accurately reflect the seriousness of the force used or injuries sustained

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7acem2gh0w2ltran7ez6y/SCSD-Incident-Report.pdf?rlkey=6jeq5bgb7pk3ls2xq0i2tjj5h&st=88b4ul07&dl=0
Incident Report - Official Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department incident report


https://as1.ftcdn.net/v2/jpg/01/68/88/70/1000_F_168887075_ZM3mPBzD4Xqs9rkHCLmJNfKdcczWfdc4.jpg
this is just an image of a puppy used as a test


https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/8o4u7ar3j0d0xwjg91e23/Clip-from-LVMPD-005630.mp4?rlkey=rpk2r4lg77jl3az0ympaydh4j&st=rydwefyz&dl=0
and here's a video of the incident as well taken from surveillance cam

## Legal Details
2:23-cv-01887-DJC-KJN federal court eastern district, sacramento, Judge Calabretta. Trial scheduleded for January 5, 2026. Case originally brought by Anthony but when he died his mother Dorothey Heimbach substituted in for him.

## News articles about the incident

https://www.kcra.com/article/stanislaus-county-lawsuit-wrongful-death-son/46369300
https://www.aol.com/news/stanislaus-county-sued-wrongful-death-150000617.html
https://www.modbee.com/news/local/crime/article284659795.html
https://youtu.be/6r3ORU6Lx-k?si=3KBCmnkvz9Xf0bWL
https://youtu.be/KLk7aKXx2Dc
