scripts/README.md, before:

# Publishing Scripts

This folder contains the automated content generation workflow scripts.

## Scripts Overview

### Main Script
- **`publish-draft.js`** - Main orchestration script that runs the entire publishing workflow

### Test Scripts
- **`test-r2-upload.js`** - Standalone script to test R2 uploads and verify URLs

### Utility Modules
- **`file-downloader.js`** - Downloads files from external URLs (Dropbox, Google Drive, etc.)
- **`cloudflare-stream.js`** - Uploads videos to Cloudflare Stream
- **`cloudflare-r2.js`** - Uploads images and PDFs to Cloudflare R2 storage
- **`cloudflare-images.js`** - Uploads images to Cloudflare Images
- **`ai-prompts.js`** - AI prompt templates for content analysis and generation
- **`validate-config.js`** - Validates environment configuration
- **`media-library.js`** - Tracks uploaded media assets to avoid duplicates
- **`metadata-registry.js`** - Manages canonical metadata values (agencies, counties, tags)
- **`metadata-registry-cli.js`** - CLI tool for managing metadata registry
- **`update-registry-from-content.js`** - Scans published content and adds new metadata to registry
- **`normalize-metadata.js`** - Normalizes existing content metadata against registry

## Usage

### Publish a Draft

```bash
npm run publish:draft draft-filename.md
```

This command:
1. Reads the draft from `/drafts/`
2. Downloads all external media
3. Uploads to Cloudflare services
4. Generates article with AI
5. Saves to content collection
6. **Updates metadata registry** with any new agencies, counties, or tags
7. Commits to Git

### Test R2 Upload (Standalone)

Test uploading PDFs to R2 and verify URL generation without running the full publish workflow:

```bash
npm run test:r2
```

This simple test:
- ✅ Downloads a real court PDF from a test URL
- ✅ Uploads it to Cloudflare R2
- ✅ Displays the public URL
- ✅ Shows frontmatter format for the documents array

This verifies that the R2 upload function properly uploads files and generates working URLs for referencing documents later.

### Update Metadata Registry from Published Content

If you need to manually scan a published file and update the registry:

```bash
node scripts/update-registry-from-content.js src/content/cases/anthony-silva.mdx case
```

This scans the frontmatter and adds any new agencies, counties, or tags to the registry. This happens automatically after publishing, but can be run manually if needed.

### Manage Metadata Registry

View and manage canonical metadata values:

```bash
# List all entries of a type
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list agencies
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list counties
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list case-tags

# Add new entries manually
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js add-agency "Berkeley PD" "BPD,Berkeley Police"
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js add-tag "Excessive Force" case

# View registry statistics
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js stats
```

### Manual Usage of Utilities

You can also use the utilities independently:

#### Download Files
```javascript
import { downloadFile } from './file-downloader.js';

const result = await downloadFile(
  'https://dropbox.com/s/abc/file.mp4',
  './downloads'
);
```

#### Upload to R2 (PDFs/Documents)
```javascript
import { uploadPDF } from './cloudflare-r2.js';

const result = await uploadPDF('./document.pdf', {
  source: 'court-filing',
  case: 'john-doe'
});

console.log(result.url); // Public URL to use in frontmatter
```

#### Upload Video
```javascript
import { uploadVideo } from './cloudflare-stream.js';

const result = await uploadVideo('./video.mp4', {
  name: 'Body Camera Footage'
});

console.log(result.videoId); // Use this in CloudflareVideo component
```

#### Upload Image
```javascript
import { uploadImage } from './cloudflare-r2.js';

const result = await uploadImage('./photo.jpg', {
  description: 'Incident location'
});

console.log(result.url); // Public URL for the image
```

## Configuration

All scripts require environment variables to be set in `.env`:

```bash
# Required
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=...
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...
CLOUDFLARE_R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
CLOUDFLARE_R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...

# Optional
CLOUDFLARE_R2_BUCKET_NAME=police-misconduct
CLOUDFLARE_R2_PUBLIC_URL=https://files.yoursite.com
```

## Architecture

```
publish-draft.js (Main Orchestrator)
  ├── file-downloader.js
  │   └── Downloads from external URLs
  ├── cloudflare-stream.js
  │   └── Uploads videos
  ├── cloudflare-r2.js
  │   └── Uploads images/PDFs
  └── ai-prompts.js
      └── Generates content with AI
```

## Error Handling

All scripts include:
- Retry logic for API calls
- Detailed error messages
- Cleanup of temporary files
- Progress logging

## Extending the Workflow

### Add New Media Source

Edit `file-downloader.js` and add a converter function:

```javascript
function convertCustomServiceUrl(url) {
  // Transform share URL to direct download URL
  return url.replace('share.example.com', 'dl.example.com');
}
```

### Customize AI Prompts

Edit `ai-prompts.js` to modify how the AI analyzes and writes content:

```javascript
export function createCaseArticlePrompt(draftContent, mediaAnalysis, metadata) {
  return {
    system: "Your custom system prompt...",
    user: `Your custom user prompt...`
  };
}
```

### Add New Content Type

1. Create a new template in `/drafts/templates/`
2. Add detection logic in `publish-draft.js`
3. Create a new prompt in `ai-prompts.js`
4. Add content collection in `src/content/config.ts`

## Testing

Test individual components:

```bash
# Test file download
node -e "import('./file-downloader.js').then(m => m.downloadFile('URL', './test'))"

# Test video upload (requires downloaded file)
node -e "import('./cloudflare-stream.js').then(m => m.uploadVideo('./test.mp4'))"
```

## Performance

Typical processing times:
- File download: 30-60s per 50MB file
- Video upload to Stream: 1-2 minutes
- Image upload to R2: 5-10 seconds
- AI analysis: 30-60 seconds per item
- Article generation: 1-2 minutes

Total: **5-10 minutes** for a typical case with 2 videos, 3 images, 1 PDF.

## Troubleshooting

See [PUBLISHING.md](../PUBLISHING.md) for detailed troubleshooting guide.

Common issues:
- **Download fails**: Check URL is publicly accessible
- **Upload fails**: Verify Cloudflare credentials
- **AI fails**: Check Anthropic API key and credits
- **Git fails**: Manually commit the generated files

## Security

- Never commit `.env` file
- Keep API keys secure
- Rotate keys if compromised
- Monitor API usage and costs

## Dependencies

```json
{
  "@anthropic-ai/sdk": "^0.32.1",
  "@aws-sdk/client-s3": "^3.709.0",
  "form-data": "^4.0.1",
  "node-fetch": "^3.3.2",
  "dotenv": "^16.4.7"
}
```

Install with: `npm install`

---

For complete documentation, see [PUBLISHING.md](../PUBLISHING.md) and [QUICKSTART.md](../QUICKSTART.md).

Commit message:

feat: Rebuild metadata registry from published content and streamline agency management fix: Update package scripts for improved registry synchronization docs: Enhance README with detailed usage instructions for metadata registry scripts refactor: Simplify metadata registry CLI commands and output formatting

scripts/README.md, after:

# Publishing Scripts

This folder contains the automated content generation workflow scripts.

## Scripts Overview

### Main Script
- **`publish-draft.js`** - Main orchestration script that runs the entire publishing workflow

### Test Scripts
- **`test-r2-upload.js`** - Standalone script to test R2 uploads and verify URLs

### Utility Modules
- **`file-downloader.js`** - Downloads files from external URLs (Dropbox, Google Drive, etc.)
- **`cloudflare-stream.js`** - Uploads videos to Cloudflare Stream
- **`cloudflare-r2.js`** - Uploads images and PDFs to Cloudflare R2 storage
- **`cloudflare-images.js`** - Uploads images to Cloudflare Images
- **`ai-prompts.js`** - AI prompt templates for content analysis and generation
- **`validate-config.js`** - Validates environment configuration
- **`media-library.js`** - Tracks uploaded media assets to avoid duplicates
- **`metadata-registry.js`** - Manages canonical metadata values (agencies, counties, tags)
- **`metadata-registry-cli.js`** - CLI tool for managing metadata registry
- **`rebuild-registry.js`** - Rebuilds entire registry from published content (used by sync-registry.js)
- **`sync-registry.js`** - Syncs registry with all published content (runs automatically on build/dev)
- **`normalize-metadata.js`** - Normalizes existing content metadata against registry

## Usage

### Publish a Draft

```bash
npm run publish:draft draft-filename.md
```

This command:
1. Reads the draft from `/drafts/`
2. Downloads all external media
3. Uploads to Cloudflare services
4. Generates article with AI
5. Saves to content collection
6. **Rebuilds metadata registry** from all published content
7. Commits to Git

### Test R2 Upload (Standalone)

Test uploading PDFs to R2 and verify URL generation without running the full publish workflow:

```bash
npm run test:r2
```

This simple test:
- ✅ Downloads a real court PDF from a test URL
- ✅ Uploads it to Cloudflare R2
- ✅ Displays the public URL
- ✅ Shows frontmatter format for the documents array

This verifies that the R2 upload function properly uploads files and generates working URLs for referencing documents later.

### Update Metadata Registry from Published Content

If you need to manually scan a published file and update the registry:

```bash
node scripts/update-registry-from-content.js src/content/cases/anthony-silva.mdx case
```

This scans the frontmatter and adds any new agencies, counties, or tags to the registry. This happens automatically after publishing, but can be run manually if needed.

### Manage Metadata Registry

The metadata registry is **automatically rebuilt** during `npm run dev` and `npm run build` to ensure it reflects all agencies, counties, and tags from published content.

View and manage canonical metadata values:

```bash
# Manually rebuild registry from all published content
node scripts/rebuild-registry.js

# Or use the sync command (which calls rebuild internally)
node scripts/sync-registry.js

# List all entries of a type
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list agencies
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list counties
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js list case-tags

# Add new entries manually (if needed before publishing)
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js add-agency "Berkeley PD"
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js add-tag "Excessive Force" case

# View registry statistics
node scripts/metadata-registry-cli.js stats
```

**How Registry Auto-Sync Works:**
1. When you run `npm run dev` or `npm run build`, the registry is automatically rebuilt
2. All published cases and posts are scanned
3. The registry is regenerated from scratch with current agencies, counties, and tags
4. Fixed values (force types, threat levels, investigation statuses) are preserved
5. Future articles will see these values in the AI prompts for consistency
6. The registry file is updated and should be committed to Git

**Note:** The registry is rebuilt from scratch each time, not incrementally updated. This ensures it's always accurate and contains no stale data.

### Manual Usage of Utilities

You can also use the utilities independently:

#### Download Files
```javascript
import { downloadFile } from './file-downloader.js';

const result = await downloadFile(
  'https://dropbox.com/s/abc/file.mp4',
  './downloads'
);
```

#### Upload to R2 (PDFs/Documents)
```javascript
import { uploadPDF } from './cloudflare-r2.js';

const result = await uploadPDF('./document.pdf', {
  source: 'court-filing',
  case: 'john-doe'
});

console.log(result.url); // Public URL to use in frontmatter
```

#### Upload Video
```javascript
import { uploadVideo } from './cloudflare-stream.js';

const result = await uploadVideo('./video.mp4', {
  name: 'Body Camera Footage'
});

console.log(result.videoId); // Use this in CloudflareVideo component
```

#### Upload Image
```javascript
import { uploadImage } from './cloudflare-r2.js';

const result = await uploadImage('./photo.jpg', {
  description: 'Incident location'
});

console.log(result.url); // Public URL for the image
```

## Configuration

All scripts require environment variables to be set in `.env`:

```bash
# Required
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=...
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...
CLOUDFLARE_R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
CLOUDFLARE_R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...

# Optional
CLOUDFLARE_R2_BUCKET_NAME=police-misconduct
CLOUDFLARE_R2_PUBLIC_URL=https://files.yoursite.com
```

## Architecture

```
publish-draft.js (Main Orchestrator)
  ├── file-downloader.js
  │   └── Downloads from external URLs
  ├── cloudflare-stream.js
  │   └── Uploads videos
  ├── cloudflare-r2.js
  │   └── Uploads images/PDFs
  └── ai-prompts.js
      └── Generates content with AI
```

## Error Handling

All scripts include:
- Retry logic for API calls
- Detailed error messages
- Cleanup of temporary files
- Progress logging

## Extending the Workflow

### Add New Media Source

Edit `file-downloader.js` and add a converter function:

```javascript
function convertCustomServiceUrl(url) {
  // Transform share URL to direct download URL
  return url.replace('share.example.com', 'dl.example.com');
}
```

### Customize AI Prompts

Edit `ai-prompts.js` to modify how the AI analyzes and writes content:

```javascript
export function createCaseArticlePrompt(draftContent, mediaAnalysis, metadata) {
  return {
    system: "Your custom system prompt...",
    user: `Your custom user prompt...`
  };
}
```

### Add New Content Type

1. Create a new template in `/drafts/templates/`
2. Add detection logic in `publish-draft.js`
3. Create a new prompt in `ai-prompts.js`
4. Add content collection in `src/content/config.ts`

## Testing

Test individual components:

```bash
# Test file download
node -e "import('./file-downloader.js').then(m => m.downloadFile('URL', './test'))"

# Test video upload (requires downloaded file)
node -e "import('./cloudflare-stream.js').then(m => m.uploadVideo('./test.mp4'))"
```

## Performance

Typical processing times:
- File download: 30-60s per 50MB file
- Video upload to Stream: 1-2 minutes
- Image upload to R2: 5-10 seconds
- AI analysis: 30-60 seconds per item
- Article generation: 1-2 minutes

Total: **5-10 minutes** for a typical case with 2 videos, 3 images, 1 PDF.

## Troubleshooting

See [PUBLISHING.md](../PUBLISHING.md) for detailed troubleshooting guide.

Common issues:
- **Download fails**: Check URL is publicly accessible
- **Upload fails**: Verify Cloudflare credentials
- **AI fails**: Check Anthropic API key and credits
- **Git fails**: Manually commit the generated files

## Security

- Never commit `.env` file
- Keep API keys secure
- Rotate keys if compromised
- Monitor API usage and costs

## Dependencies

```json
{
  "@anthropic-ai/sdk": "^0.32.1",
  "@aws-sdk/client-s3": "^3.709.0",
  "form-data": "^4.0.1",
  "node-fetch": "^3.3.2",
  "dotenv": "^16.4.7"
}
```

Install with: `npm install`

---

For complete documentation, see [PUBLISHING.md](../PUBLISHING.md) and [QUICKSTART.md](../QUICKSTART.md).
